Validation and serialization (#2023)
fastify/fastify: docs/Validation-and-Serialization.md

> [fast-json-stringify](http://npm.im/fast-json-stringify) for more
> details.

### Core concepts
The validation and the serialization tasks are processed by two different, and customizable, actors:
- [Ajv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ajv) for the validation of a request
- [fast-json-stringify](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fast-json-stringify) for the serialization of a response's body

> These two separated processes share only the JSON shemas you will add to fastify's instance through `.addSchema(schema)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These two separate entities share only the JSON shemas added to Fastify's instance through `.addSchema(schema)`.
```

<a name="shared-schema"></a>
#### Adding a shared schema
Thanks to the `addSchema` API, you can add multiple schemas to the Fastify instance and then reuse them in multiple parts of your application.
As usual, this API is encapsulated.

The shared schemas can be reused through the JSON Schema [**`$ref`**](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-handrews-json-schema-01#section-8) keyword.

> Here an overview on _how_ references to it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here an overview on _how_ references work:
```

+ `myField: { $ref: 'http://url.com/sh.json#'}` will search for a shared schema added with `$id: 'http://url.com/sh.json'`
+ `myField: { $ref: 'http://url.com/sh.json#/definitions/foo'}` will search for a shared schema added with `$id: 'http://url.com/sh.json'` and will use the field `definitions.foo`
+ `myField: { $ref: 'http://url.com/sh.json#foo'}` will search for a shared schema added with `$id: 'http://url.com/sh.json'` and it will look inside of it for object with `$id: '#foo'`

**Simple usage:**

```js
fastify.addSchema({
  $id: 'http://example.com/',
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    hello: { type: 'string' }
  }
})

fastify.post('/', {
  handler () {},
  schema: {
    body: {
      type: 'array',
      items: { $ref: 'http://example.com#/properties/hello' }
    }
  }
})
```

**`$ref` as root reference:**

```js
fastify.addSchema({
  $id: 'commonSchema',
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    hello: { type: 'string' }
  }
})

fastify.post('/', {
  handler () {},
  schema: {
    body: { $ref: 'commonSchema#' },
    headers: { $ref: 'commonSchema#' }
  }
})
```

<a name="get-shared-schema"></a>
#### Retrieving the shared schemas

> If the validator and the serializer will be customized, the `.addSchema` will not be useful since the actors are no more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the validator and the serializer are customized, the `.addSchema` method will not be useful since the actors are no longer
```

> under the Fastify controls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
controlled by Fastify.
```

> So, to access the schemas added to the Fastify's instance, you can simply use `.getSchemas()`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, to access the schemas added to the Fastify instance, you can simply use `.getSchemas()`:
```

Is this true? The preceding text states that `addSchema` doesn't work. So how would `getSchemas` work?

```js
fastify.addSchema({
  $id: 'schemaId',
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    hello: { type: 'string' }
  }
})

const mySchemas = fastify.getSchemas()
const mySchema = fastify.getSchema('schemaId')
```

> As usual, also this function `getSchemas` is encapsulated and returns the shared schemas available in the selected scope:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As usual, the function `getSchemas` is encapsulated and returns the shared schemas available in the selected scope:
```

      hello: Joi.string().required()
    }).required()
  },
  validatorCompiler: (method, url, httpPart, schema) => {
    return (data) => Joi.validate(data, schema)
  }
}, handler)
```

In that case the function returned by `validatorCompiler` returns an object like:
* `error`: filled with an instance of `Error` or a string that describes the validation error
* `value`: the coerced value that passed the validation

<a name="serialization"></a>
### Serialization

> Usually you will send your data to the clients via JSON, and Fastify has a powerful tool to help you, [fast-json-stringify](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fast-json-stringify), which is used if you have provided an output schema in the route options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually you will send your data to the clients as JSON, and Fastify has a powerful tool to help you, [fast-json-stringify](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fast-json-stringify), which is used if you have provided an output schema in the route options.
```

> We encourage you to use an output schema, as it will increase your throughput by **100-400%** depending on your payload and will prevent accidental disclosure of sensitive information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We encourage you to use an output schema, as it can drastically increase throughput and help prevent accidental disclosure of sensitive information.
```

      }
    },
    201: {
      // the contract sintax
      value: { type: 'string' }
    }
  }
}

fastify.post('/the/url', { schema }, handler)
```

<a name="schema-serializer"></a>
#### Schema Serializer

> The `schemaSerializer` is a function that returns a function that must return a string from an input object. You must provide a function to serialize every route where you have define a `response` JSON schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `schemaSerializer` is a function that returns a function that must return a string from an input object. You must provide a function to serialize every route where you have defined a `response` JSON schema.
```
